For my senior capstone project as a WVU Mathematics Major, I developed algorithms that calculate the average hitting time (the amount of characters it takes for a string to appear in a random sequence of characters -- for example, the string "ABA" has a hitting time of 5 in the random string "BCABA") of a user's target string, that hitting time's Probability Mass Function, and plays a related multiplayer game. In this game, any number of players each have their own target string, and the winning probabilities (the probability that each target string appears first in the same target sequence) are returned. 

To implement these algorithms correctly, an extensive knowledge of Markov chains was obtained. As well, a preliminary step was to create an algorithm that takes a target string (or strings, in the case of the multiplayer game), and an alphabet (set of possible characters that can appear in the random target sequence) and return the associated transition matrix. This algorithm, as well as all of the other ones mentioned above, work for any target string(s), any alphabet, and any set of probabilities of each letter in the alphabet appearing in the random sequence of characters.

An interesting finding was that we can have target strings of the same length that have different average hitting times, and subsequently different hitting time Probability Mass Functions. An example of this are the strings "ABC" (average hitting time of 27 characters) and "ABA" (average hitting time of 30 characters). The reason for this is explained both in the associated capstone paper and capstone poster files also in this repo. 

Another interesting discovery was an alternate implementation of the algorithm that derives the transition matrix from the multiplayer game. This implementation significantly reduces the number of states in the associated Markov chain, and actually reduces the time-complexity of all multiplayer algorithms significantly. It allows the algorithms to only worsen in time-complexity by an additive factor, rather than a multiplicative factor, as we increase the number of target strings.
